                                          The current yearbook setup (orientation selector) system is broken and inconsistent. Please rebuild it cleanly from scratch while keeping the existing logic intact.
Here’s the full breakdown of what needs fixing and how it should work:


---

🧩 The Problem:

The setup window sometimes appears twice when a school clicks Manage for the first time.

After setup, it still reappears on every page reload instead of being a one-time setup.

The logic is inconsistent and messy — probably due to conflicting frontend checks and delayed backend updates.



---

✅ Rebuild Instructions:

1. Database structure:

Ensure the yearbook schema includes:

isInitialized: boolean // default: false
orientation: "portrait" | "landscape" | null

When a new yearbook is first created, isInitialized should be set to false.



2. Initialization trigger:

When a school clicks Manage for a year that has no yearbook record yet, create the yearbook entry with isInitialized: false.

When they click Manage again, fetch the yearbook from the DB and check:

If isInitialized === false, show the setup window.

If isInitialized === true, skip the setup window and go straight to the yearbook management UI.




3. Setup flow:

When the school selects their orientation and confirms:

Immediately call the backend (/api/yearbook/update or similar) to set:

isInitialized: true
orientation: selectedOption

Wait for confirmation from the API before closing the setup modal.

After confirmation, reload the management view.




4. Frontend logic (cleanup):

Remove any duplicate or nested rendering conditions that might cause the setup window to appear twice.

Make sure there is only one place where the check for isInitialized happens.

Ensure setup modal state is properly cleared from memory after it closes.



5. Verification:

Test this exact flow:

First time clicking Manage → one setup window only.

After orientation is selected → it disappears and never shows again.

Reload page → no setup window appears.

Delete yearbook → setup resets correctly.






---

⚙️ Notes:

Keep the UI and design consistent with the current app layout.

Do not change existing styling, component structure, or routing — just clean up and rebuild the logic flow.

Once fixed, test both cases: a new yearbook and an already initialized one.